# Public_ESAPI_Programs
This is a public Repo of all of my ESAPI programs (scripts and stand-alone), that I have decided to make available for public use under the GPLv3 licence. These are programs that are used with Varian Medical System's Eclipse Treatment Planning System, which is commercial FDA-approved software used in Radiation Oncology. The Eclipse Application Programming Interface (ESAPI), made availible to users by Varian, is a .NET Framework class library that allows one to make scripts and stand-alone programs uitilizing Eclipse and the information contained within patient plans stored on an organization's ARIA/Eclipse system.

Because the Varian ARIA/Eclipse software environment runs on Microsoft Windows, Eclipse scripts are written to target the Microsoft .NET Framework, which is essentially a large collection of class libraries used to write programs for desktop Windows environments. Because of this, Eclipse programs are usually written using the C# language (an object-oriented language similiar to, but with some important differences, C++), wich was created by Microsoft in the early 2000s along with the .NET Framework, in Microsoft Visual Studio, a freely availiuble and very popular IDE (Integrated Development Environment) for making .NET Framework programs. Installing Visual Studio will include all of the .NET Framework class libraries you need, as well as a C# compiler. This is the best way to interact with and modify my programs. Visual studio also allows you to compile .NET Framework

I have also included all copies of the ESAPI class library files (DLLs), from Varian, which one needs to have access to ESAPI. I currently have copies for versions 13.7, 15.1, and 15.6 of Eclipse.

I have included the source code files as well as the compiled programs here in the ESAPI version that I currently have them configured in, but please note that the ESAPI version really just depends on which version of the ESAPI DLL files used to complile it. Version 15.1 and above of Eclipse are all completley compatible, there are no changes needed to the source code. You just need to copile the program using the correct ESAPI DLL so your version of Eclipse recognizes it. version 13.7 of Eclipse does have some slight changes, but these are very easy to make.

The GPLv3 license, which is included in this Repo, allows anyone to use, modify, copy, and distribute any of my programs here, but all copies and modifications must remain under the GPLv3 license, such that these programs cannot be used as part of proprietary software and the source code must always remain availible to the public. I retain the copyright to the software, which just means that my name must remain in the source code as the original author.

Please contact me at zackmorelli@gmail.com if you have any questions.
